Empworld II.txt
Text File

Map Name: 	"The Empire of the world II"
Map Maker:	Darklord
Email Address:	hap654b@tninet.se

Map Type:	Single Player (1 Human, 7 Computer)
Difficulty:     Impossible
Language:	English

Description:	This is the adventure of Maximus,a warrior from Rome.
                He was banished from his homeland.He went away by sea.
                The ship sank.Maximus was the only survivor.He woke up
                on a beach,with no memory of what have happened.
                Now Maximus must find his way back to Rome. 

Special Win:	None
Special Loss:	None
Play Testers:	My self(Lots of times)
		And my brother  jo.kispalko@tninet.se
		
Game Edition: 	Heroes 3+SOD
Map Size:	Extra Large
Underworld:	Yes
Starting Town:	Castle
Starting Hero:	Maximus(Knight)
Starting Bonus:	Random
Player's Color:	Purple

_____
NOTES

(1) This is episode 2 of the map "The empire of the world".You don`t
    have to have played the first to play this map.

(2) Read all signs, take note of all events.Some are very important.

(3) I have put the grail in for some fun and to get an extra bonus.
    IMPORTANT NOTE:If you find the grail,don`t put it in a tower.It will
    reveal the whole map and spoil the game.

(4) This is an adventure single player map(with a story).You play the role of 
    Maximus.He will do all the great battles.If you lose him,consider the
    game lost.
 
(5) Down below i will have a game strategy and some spoiler information.
    Read only if you have no clue of what to do next in the game.

 







WARNING!!!!GAME SPOILERS!!!!READ ONLY IF YOU HAVE NO CLUE OF WHAT TO DO!!!!




(1) Follow the road to the south.Kill the guard and pass through the 
    subterranean gate.The road north leads to the castle Longbow.Visit
    the stable again to upgrade your cavaliers.Fight and kill the Cleric
    Longbow.The castle will be built the next week,but not the Portal
    of glory.
(2) The next 2-3 weeks you should take control of the area around Longbow.
    You should build the Portal of glory before the end of month 1.
    If you don`t have enough resources,visit the Trading post.
(3) When you have about 7-10 Arch Angels in your army go northeast to
    the Unknown castle and take it.And free the prisoner there.Remember
    the seer`s hut behind the prison for later.It will give you The
    Tome of earth artifact.Go to the subterranean gate behind the castle
    to visit the blue keymasters tent.
(4) When you have about 15-20 Arch Angels you should go south from your
    castle Longbow to the blue border guards.Follow the river by boat
    til`you get to the Sherwood forest.Take the Crown of the supreme magi
    from the Dendroid guards first.Kill Robin Hood.But be careful
    that he don`t flee with your boat,then all will be lost.
(5) Now Cristian can pass the border guard south of the unknown castle
    and visit the green keymasters tent.And Maximus can visit the seer`s
    hut to the north of Sherwood forest to learn water walk.Let Maximus 
    water walk his way back west towards the unknown castle and visit the
    seer`s hut to get the Tome of earth artifact.
(6) Now it`s time for Maximus to go to the hall of gods.Just behind Longbow
    is a two way monolith that leads to it.Don`t be afraid of the gods,
    they can`t move.Kill only God of water.Then you can pass to the south
    on the river that lead to sherwood forest.
(7) Go straight to the east and land your boat.Then go south towards Brother Tuck.
    Kill Brother Tuck.Free Marion just behind Brother Tucks castle.
(8) Go by boat again(visit the islands)til`you get to the island where
    Prince John and King Arthur lives.To get to King Arthur you have to
    water walk.
(9) Now when you have killed King Arthur you can pass the border guard
    that leads to the WHIRLPOOL.
(10)You will get to the island where Xyron lives.You can not kill him.
    Listen very careful to the peasants.They are your only chance to pass
    Xyron.Take the one way monolith that leads to Mongolia(don`t town portal
    back for more troops til`you get to the next castle).
(11)Now you are in the black sea.Summon a boat.Get to land.
    You don`t have to fight the Green Dragons to get the artifact.
    When you reach the border guard that needs 4000 wood,you shold go north
    between the two Gorgon`s lair(hidden passage)to the subterranean gate.
    There to the south you will find a castle and the wood you need.
    To the south of the castle is a hidden passage.You will need the Dragons.
    Go back to the border guard.
(12)Kill everything in Mongolia if you can.The Chaos hydras for gold,the
    Fearie Dragons for primary skills.Water walk to the west where the sign
    says "swimming only"to get the Cornuccopia.
    To the west of the magic well is the hidden passage that gets you
    further into Mongolia.
(13)Kill the Red Keeper at King Lugasus grave to visit the red keymasters tent.
    Summon a boat after you have killed Arjuna.Come back later for the Seer´s hut.
(14)Go by boat to the Chaos Island.Kill Semgal Khan to open the Quest guard.
    You can open the pandoras box there to(no guards).
    Go west til`you get to the garrison.You don`t have to fight the troops
    in the garrison,there is another way in.
    Kill Genghis Khan.
(15)Now you can pass the Quest guard at Kings castle.
(16)Search through the ocean,go north first and visit the Lighthouses(water walk).
    Remember the Quest guard there for later(important).The Seer`s hut will
    give you "Orb of vulnebarity"when you reach level 50.
    Go south west by boat.You don`t have to fight God of fire yet,to pass
    the Quest guard.Go further west first.Visit The Pit lords island.
    And you don`t have to fight all the Crystal Dragons to get to the
    monolith.You can come back much later.
(17)Go to the Hall of the gods.Kill God of fire.
(18)Go back to the Quest guard in the ocean that has the garrison behind.
    Leave all your troops except a couple of Arch Angels in the garrison.
    Go north.Don`t open the red border guard,go through the red border gate.
    When yo reach the last red border guard,stay there 
    through the night.Then pass it to get to the purple keymasters tent.
    Remember to build a tavern in Kings castle first.Surrender when
    Merlin attacks you.Then rehire Maximus in Kings castle`s tavern.
    Go back for the troops in the garrison.
(19)Now you can go south from Brother Tucks castle,and pass the purple
    border guard.You have to kill the Faerie dragons.Go through the subterranean
    gate.
(20)Kill the guard to get to the two way monolith.It will lead yo to 
    "Shadowlands".There are only 3 heroes in shadowlands.Kill all.
(21)Now you have to find the hidden passage Below the Unknown castle,west.
    Then you will reach a border guard.Kill God of earth in "the hall of
    the gods"to pass it.
(22)Now you enter the "wild barbarians land"Lookout for hidden passages.
    
    About half of the map is covered now.If you have any problems with 
    the rest of the map,please email me.//Darklord     
