Map Name:       Unleashing the Bloodthirsty (SoD version, 2/07/02)
Map Maker:      Andrew Tanzi
E-Mail Address: commando_avatar@libero.it

Map Type:       1H 7C, for Armageddon's Blade
Language:       Mostly English, plus a little Italian, Spanish, Hindi (trans-
                literated), French & German

Special Win:    Acquire Artifact
Special Loss:   Lose Hero; there is also an 18-month time limit *hehe*
Map Size:       Extra Large
Difficulty:     Impossible
Special other:  No taverns except one hidden away and accessible towards the
                end of the game (not that you'll really need it...); no 
                marketplaces (and no crystal) until you enter the land of the
                Overlords. The AI may be very slow at the beginning. Please be
                patient, it's worth it!

Banned spells:  Town Portal (until you reach Dwarvenheim); Summon ship (until
                you defeat Angry Samoan); Fly, Dimension door (until you...oh,
                you'll see!) 

                Please send your comments to my above-mentioned address.
                All feedback is more than welcome!

What's new:     The time limit has been extended to 18 months; some battles are 
                tougher; more clues are provided as to what needs to be done; El 
                Trueno's secondary skills are different so bye-bye expert berserk 
                and haste; various bits and pieces I can't be arsed to remember; 
                my girlfriend has ditched me. What more do you want to know?


Play-Testers:   Victor-Angel Bolzoni   victor-angel.bolzoni@cfwb.be
                Chris Tiarht           chrisat@brescia.edu
                Patrick                longshanks@aol.com
                Wen En Tang            p3dantic@yahoo.com.sg


HINTS/TIPS

- Always look for hidden surprises (behind castles, volcanoes, mountains)

- Abandon the Stronghold no later than day 1, week 3 (and don't take any of the
  fortresses before week 4, day 2!!!) 

- Always use the Chains of War! (once you get them)

- DO NOT venture beyond the one-way portal without the Helm of Heavenly
  Enlightment!

- The Maze of Torment can be completed with just three battles.

- Be careful using Town Portal when you retake your first Stronghold! If you
  can't reach your ship and haven't got 'Summon Ship', all will be lost!

- Read the signpost in the Wyrm Swamp to complete the missions...

- Can't defeat the dragons guarding the Orb? Use your other two heroes to
  weaken them. And when El Trueno attacks, have him use another special Orb
  *hehe* If you're desperate, visit the three huts in the Sands of Blood.

- For all other queries, drop me a line and I'll be more than happy to help!