
                    THE CARTOGRAPHER MAP SUBMISSION

Map Name:	Monster Island 1.01 (Monster Island 1.01.h3m)
Map Maker:	Florin Ghidraseanu
E-Mail Address:	nvm@chek.com

Map Type:	XL Multiplayer Cooperative 8 Humans Or Computer
Language:	English

Description:	The Great Interdimensional World War burst out all over the known time and space
                inhabitted by the human race. In 2313 the mankind finally could travel freely 
                between ages, but after several years of many expeditions in the past, the great
                discovery  prooved to be more devastating than the atomic bomb. An interdimensional
                war strikes between all civilisations that mankind manage to build on this cursed
                earth.The tide of war spread amongst the entire planet seting on fire every damn 
                age. 
                The mounted warriors of Ginghis Han could fight the motorized troops of the Third 
                Rich  leaded in battle by Adolf Hitler himself. The well organized legions of the 
                Roman Empire had the chance to fight against the Great Mayan Empire in his days of 
                glory. The myth of the lost continet of Atlantis proved to be real and his fierce 
                warriors strikes through  the evil hordes of Lucifer who made an unholly alliance 
                with the roumanian count Dracula and his undead armies. Even Zeus, the suprem god of
                Olimp, was forced to rise his angelic army and fight for freedom and the right to 
                live his eternal life.
                After the hatch of the war was burried, the earth was almost destroyed and the 
                remaining combatants must now fight to survive on the last piece of earth, protected
                from destruction by the fear inspired by his inhabitants.This small archipelago is 
                belived to be the home of the Dragonmaster Guild for centuries, but now you must 
                restrain your ancestral fear and make your way to the central island sloughtering 
                all the dragons in your way. Other seven enemies manage to get on the Monster
                Archipelago, hoping to uncover the secrets of the main island and get his powerfull 
                relics and spells before the others. 

Special Win:	NONE
Special Loss:	NONE
Special Other:	Cooperative 4 teams

Narrative:      My third Heroes Map. Feel free to report any bugs or just send a comment.
		I really hope you replay this map with different empires!
		
Play-Testers:	Jilavu Gabriel
		Catalin Ceraru
	
SPOILERS:	NONE


