
                   HEROES III MAP SUBMISSION

Map Name:	Titanic Pride:Eps.I,II,III (TITANI~1.H3M)	
Date:		updated!!! September 22, 1999
Map Maker:	Jason Russell
E-Mail Address:	jrussell@quark.physics.uwo.ca

Map Type:	Singleplayer [1 Human Only, 3 Computers Only]
Map Size:	XL with underground
Language:	English

Description:	Gunnar, an evil Overlord, desires to pillage the world.

		Unfortunately, King Graven is travelling around and assisting his allies
		with his cursed Angels.

		In order to rule the land, King Graven and his Angels must fall. If
		the Overlords are to win, they will need to find assistance somewhere...

Special Win:	Defeat the Hero "King Graven"
Special Loss:	Lose the Hero "Theodorus"

Special Other:	Theodorus AND Dace must NOT die, surrender nor retreat or the game is Unplayable.
		They BOTH must survive.

		BUG WARNING! The Loss Condition sometimes changes to "Orrin" for no
		apparent reason in the middle of the game. (HOMMIII Bug???)
		
		Orrin is safely tucked away in a jail at (0,0,1)

Narrative:	Episodes I, II, III

		Gunnar, an evil Overlord, is determined to have everyone bow under his
		power. In order to accomplish this task, He will need to establish a strong
		presence underground and then wipe out the infestations above ground.

		Unfortunately, there is no Sulfur around so the power of the Dragons will
		have to wait. Because of this, Gunnar has sent his brother, Dace, to search 
		the underground caverns for the precious Sulfur.

		There is also word that King Graven and his Wizard friend, Theodorus, are
		travelling throughout the land and assisting their allies with the King's
		Angels.

		In order to rule the land, King Graven and his Angels must fall. It will be
		tough, so Gunnar will need to find help somewhere...
		

Play-Testers:	Brian Combs
		bcombs@hom.net

		dwieschi
  		dwieschi@hrz1.hrz.tu-darmstadt.de

		Jeff Fike
		JTFIKE@VISI.com and 
		
		Julie Fike
		JAFIKE@visi.com

		Gwhenwyfar
		gwhenwyfar@nikocity.de

		Paul Tanganelli
		ptanganelli@hotmail.com

		yung
		raven@mars.ark.com


		


SPOILERS:	WARNING!!!  SPOILER INFORMATION FOLLOWS PROCEED AT YOUR OWN RISK!
SPOILERS:	WARNING!!!  SPOILER INFORMATION FOLLOWS PROCEED AT YOUR OWN RISK!
SPOILERS:	WARNING!!!  SPOILER INFORMATION FOLLOWS PROCEED AT YOUR OWN RISK!
SPOILERS:	WARNING!!!  SPOILER INFORMATION FOLLOWS PROCEED AT YOUR OWN RISK!


















		This map is set at Impossible, but it IS Possible.

		There are enough resources around to build a good, strong Castle.

	Episode I: Separations
		
		Main Enemy: Red (Goes approx. from Month 1 to 3)

		Do NOT attempt to Kill King Graven Right away and try to win the game!
		Your goal is to defeat King Graven but not now! He is too strong for Theodorus.

		Do NOT visit the Swan Pond. King Graven will Kill you. The Swan Pond is used to 
		slow the King down so Theodorus has a chance to get away.

		Theodorus MUST get the Neckalace of Ocean Guidance and the Sea Captains Hat in
		order to escape the King. Make sure he is WEARING these artifacts! If you 
		choose Random Artfact in the beginning, Theodorus might already be wearing a hat
		or necklace at the beginning!

		Gunnar can build a Castle, Portal of Summoning, Harpy Loft by day 7

		Troglodites are not affected by the Medusa stare!

		Get the Arms of Legion for +9 Minotaurs per week!

		Red will appear in the Southern Cavern by week 3.

		Dace can easily kill the surrounding beasts. Remember, Wraiths will drain All
		of Dace's spell points.

		Dace needs those Gold Mines.

		Follow the instructions given to Dace by the Diamond and Gold Golems. Fulfill their
		quest!

		In order for Theodorus to escape the King, He can not pick up any loose wood. That
		would slow him down. Leave the wood, King Graven will waste HIS time to get it!

		After Theodorus lands, he will be too weak to fight the Dragons, or the elves in 
		the garrison. There is another way for him to escape!

		The Sea Captains Hat gives Theodorus the ability to Cast "Summon Boat". Use it on 
		the other side of the cape.

		Have Theodorus visit the Seer, he is safe there from the King. Notice what the King
		picks up along the way! (anti Blind artifact, Orb of Silt, Tome of Earth Magic)

		Theodorus will end up in the swamp. 

		Theodorus CAN kill the 3 Chaos Hydra guarding the Fortress!
		Remember, Chaos Hydra love to chew on catapults. Use Shield and have it work on it
		while his Titan moves far enough away to hit it with hs lightning.

		The Witch Styg is too Powerful to kill by Theodorus alone. She has 99 Spell Power
		with Ice Bolt and Ice Ring!

		Dace must collect the Resistant Clothes along his journeys. He needs 200-300 Golems
		in order to kill the 401 Iron Golems protecting the Black tent.

		Before going through the black Border Guard in the underground Dace needs about 
		100 or so Golems in order to kill all Pit Lords down there.

		Dace MUST free Xyron and Flee from him. He can not fight him!

		Quickly, Dace and Theodorus must meet! Around M2 W2 maybe.

		Red will find its own Red Tent by M2 W2, Beware! The Red Guards not only protect 
		Gunnar from the Barbarians but also prevent Red from joining forces!
		
	Episode II:  The Sulfur

		Main Enemy: Blue (Months 3 to 4)

		Once Dace has the Blue Tent, Xyron will get it, Then Blue will swarm the swamp!

		Quickly, Dace can give Theodorus the Resistant clothing and Kill Styg for her 
		Seer Artifact. Theodorus can be up to 45% resistant! Dace can teach Theodorus
		Protection from Water and give Theodorus his Resistant Golems!

		Choice: Use the little Sulfur to give Theodorus The Chaos Hydra (Before the town 
		is Lost) OR use it to buy Red Dragons for Gunnar. (I'd take the Hydra before 
		Blue does)

		Send Theodorus back to return the Seer Artifact. Dimension Door! Now he can visit
		the Scholar there! Town Portal! 

		On Magic Plains, Theodorus can use those spells at Expert Ability. Theodorus MUST
		visit the Brown Tent before Town Portalling to where Gunnar is.

		Gunnar can get Town Portal too! In the Northern cavern where the Seer's Hut is.

		Dace is at a point where he has quick access to the Sulfur Stockpiles (via the 
		underground) It'll be tricky, but if he can quickly grab them before getting caught
		by Blue there is about 60-70 sulfur per stockpile!

		60-70 Sulfur! Did someone say Black Dragons!!!!! They have been growing since the 
		beginning of the game in the Dungeons!

		Eliminate Red. Blue will come at Gunnar first through the Snowy Alchemist Land.
		Soon, Blue will find the White and Red Tents, then they will Join forces and come
		after Gunnar from ALL directions.

		You do NOT need to kill Blue Heroes to win the game, but it will be a challenge.

		Theodorus is the only one with Dimension Door to Visit the Wizard Tower called
		Spire Height. Titans are there!!!

		Send Theodorus through the one way Portal to get the Light Blue Tent.
		Once there, Theodorus can sleep for the rest of the game.

		Gunnar can now go after King Graven!!!

	Episode III: Fall of Angels. Rise of Titans

		Main Enemy: Pink (Months 4 to 6)

		With Town Portal, Gunnar can get Theodorus' artifacts and Titans.

		Give Dace the Sea Captains Hat, he is the Expert on the water.

		Dace can get the Hourglass of the Evil Hour for the Seer to get the Wizards Hat!

		There are two ways to get into Alandria (Pink Territory) Use either. Or surround
		them!

		King Graven is in Alandria. He should have by M6, 100 angels and 150 Green Dragons. 
		Or more depending on when you enter Alandria.

		King Graven knows Dimension Door, Town Portal, Implosion and Resurrection.

		Kill him to win the game.

		To save time on computer turns, King Graven is the ONLY Pink Hero. 

		There is a HOMMIII bug that gives the Computer legions of Creatures for no apparent
		reason. IF this happens, (it only happened once to me), there is a cave where you
		get 10 free Black Dragons everytime you land on it. BE WARNED do not use it UNLESS
		King Graven has more than 400 Angels, OR THE ENDING IS RUINED!!!!!

	Angelic Pride: Episodes IV, V, VI now available
	Devilish Pride: Episodes VII, VIII, IX now available
	The End of Pride: Episode X available soon
